- Selected via sortition. The sortition of Electoral Oversight members is specifically defined in the constitution to consist of the repeated selection of random digits from a pool of the digits 0-9, with replacement, such that each digit selected is publicly verifiable and the resultant number is verified to either match a sortition identifier or not be able to so match, at which point the selected digits will be discarded and the process will restart. The process of that selection must be performed with public observation and if at all possible, publicly broadcast and recorded so that any citizen may verify the randomness of the process for themselves.
- Must maintain public lists of eligibility for the sortition-determined panels such that any citizen may verify their own eligibility as well as the uniqueness of sortition identifiers.
- All sortition identifiers for Electoral Oversight must be the same length.
- Sortition identifiers may only be used for the purpose of selecting citizens for sortition, and may not be publicly linked to any data beyond that required to verify the uniqueness of such identifiers, and may not be secretly linked to any additional data beyond that required to contact a selected citizen in order to inform them of their selection or to validate a citizen's request to be deemed ineligible for sortition to one or more bodies.
- The process of sortition for positions other than Electoral Oversight may be chosen by Electoral Oversight, but must be publicly published in advance, and performed such that it is clear that all eligible identifiers were equally possible to be chosen.
- All sortition-selected individuals have the right to refuse selection; if they so refuse, the procedure is to be repeated promptly.
- All governmental positions filled by sortition are to pay wages equal to the greater of the amount specified by law or the 75th-percentile salary (for clarity, a salary such that no less than 75% of the population earns no more than it), which may be prorated by hours worked for positions which do not demand full time work.
- When a sortition-selected seat becomes empty outside the normal course of affairs, it is to be filled as soon as feasible after such determination is made; should that seat have a fixed term and more than half the term remain, the replacement's term will end as previously scheduled, otherwise the selected replacement shall hold the seat for both the reminder of the current term and the next.
- Oversees plebiscites and ensures the secrecy of plebiscite votes.
  - The oversight of plebiscite votes is non-discretionary, and a purely ministerial duty. Discretion may be applied to some aspects of the process but not to determination of the outcome.
- Are to establish a procedure by which the citizenry can initiate plebiscites, which will become standard law upon a majority vote.
- That procedure may include reasonable requirements to show that the plebiscite has a non-negligible chance of success, such as signature counts or polling, but must otherwise be open to all citizens and proposals.
- Oversees sortitions.
  - The oversight of actual sortition selection is non-discretionary and a purely ministerial duty,
- If districting is used for the legislature, Electoral Oversight are who draw district boundaries.
  - Districts (if they exist) must have as similar a count of adult citizens to one another as possible given the limits of the polity's knowledge and any other restrictions on districting (such as state or province borders that cannot be crossed by such districts)
- The only disqualifier for a position on Electoral Oversight beyond that specified in the right to the potential of representation is having previously held a position on Electoral Oversight; no one may hold a position on Electoral Oversight more than once.
- Electoral Oversight is to be composed of 11 members holding staggered 2-year terms, such that 5 are to be selected on odd years, and 6 on even.
