- Selected via sortition, with five tranches of seats selected yearly for five-year total terms. Each tranche should be of approximately equal size.
- Number of seats determined by law; if not specified, is to be the greater of 27 or the floor of the cube root of the population of the polity, all citizens (resident and otherwise) and any non-citizen residents included.
- Budgets are to be proposed by vote of the legislature, any proposals which receive at least 20% of the vote in a simultaneous vote of the legislature are sent to the population in a plebiscite that permits marking multiple choices for either approval or ranked voting, as specified by law. The legislature is required to propose at least one budgetary plebiscite per year, but may propose more if it so desires.
- The legislature has the power to, by 2/3rds majority, grant pardons for all crimes save for abuse of public office, but may not pardon a current legislator, nor one who has served as a legislator within the past five years, nor issue preemptive pardons.
- The legislature may create bureaucracies, to be overseen in one of the three following ways:
  - A body elected at least yearly from within the legislature of no less than five individuals, determined by the top vote-getters in a simultaneous vote within the legislature such that no legislator can vote for more than one individual.
  - Sortition, for a body of at least size eleven, with individual seats having terms no longer than five years.
  - Individual appointment that must be confirmed by a plebiscite that is offered multiple choices; any individuals who receive at least 20% in simultaneous legislative vote, as well as the mandatory option of electing to instead have the seat chosen by sortition of a single individual. Such a plebiscite must permit marking multiple choices for either approval or ranked voting, as specified by law. (If using approval voting, a failure for any candidate to achieve a majority approval is to be interpreted as a choice for sortition)
    - If an office is held by individual appointment and there is a current valid office-holder, "retain the current office-holder" will also be an automatic option in any seating plebiscite for that office.
    - The legislature may propose new appointment plebiscites for an individual-appointment office at any time.
- A legislature-created bureaucracy may also impose requirements for eligibility to fill the overseeing body, if it is not elected from within the legislature, so long as the number of individuals eligible to sit upon such a body is no less than the size of the legislature itself.
- The legislature may, by 2/3rds majority, pass laws in order to protect rights or fulfill guarantees.
- The legislature may, by simple majority, propose a yes/no plebiscite on any matter that does not require altering the constitution or meaningfully altering the budget.
- The legislature may, by 2/3rds majority, propose a plebiscite on a constitutional amendment.
