The judicial branch is to oversee cases and controversies brought against individuals or the government for violating the law or rights.
Appointments to the judiciary are to be done by the legislature with the advice and consent of the Senate, though if a judicial position remains open for more than six months, that position's colleagues are to nominate a judge for the Senate to confirm, and a judge appointed in such a way shall suffer no deficiency from that appointment.
The judiciary can and should always hear novel or necessary challenges to any law or doctrine that is alleged to violate any clause of Article 2, if such is necessary to prevent it from evading review.
Appointment as a standard judge shall be for life and good behavior, and the judiciary should specify an ethical code that includes what transgressions are impeachable. Appointment to the court of final review shall be granted only to already-appointed judges, shall be for fixed duration, and in the ordinary course of matters will be made once a year. Should an unscheduled vacancy open up on the court of final review, the appointment will be for the duration of the term of the vacancy. When a judge reaches the conclusion of their term on the court of final review, they revert to their prior appointment.

-----------------

Judiciary! Lifetime appointments except for the top court which is carefully metered to avoid gamesmanship (and they go back to being a judge anyway), since independence. but also, a rule saying "yes judges can consider nonsense that's trying to evade review". also, if the legislature is shitting the bed on appointments, let the jusiciary sort it out - the legislature should be in charge if it can, but if it's too divided, the judiciary should not grind to a halt.
