The Parliament is to serve as the will of the people. It is to be composed of representatives elected every two years, in separate elections electing representatives for each state and also some federal representatives for those citizens not resident in any state, be they resident in territories, federal land, or overseas.
The representatives from a given state are to be elected via proportional election as run by that state, with each representative possessing power in Parliament equal to a share of the voters of their state; each representative from a state is to have the same voting power as one another. When approprtioned, the smallest state is to have no less than three representatives, and the largest state precisely twenty-five; other states shall have a number of representatives within that range such that the voting power of each representative is as similar as possible. Everything in this paragraph applies equally to the federal representation of non-state-resident citizens, as if they were collectively resident in a single state.
The records of the votes of Parliament must be published. (insert various misc rules about how voting works here; it's weighted, and otherwise is simple yes/no. but also, what do they have the power to vote on?) Parliament can create Executive Branch agencies to enforce laws and enact and enforce regulations, as well as appointing officers to helm such agencies with the advice and consent of the senate.

-----------------------------------------------------------

The basic idea here is just: prop rep parliament, with federalism. Each state needs at least 3 representatives or prop rep doesn't work at all, and we should weight their votes for sanity, and limit the overall size of the parliament somewhat so that we have any hope of a functional government.
the prime minister will be implicit, and will be up to parliament to deal with, but they are separated from the executive branch despite lack of a president; still, as long as the senate's okay you can replace the executive branch officers when the government changes, so it shouldn't be an issue. (but if the prime minister is playing games, well, hopefully everyone else serves as a check.)
mandatory two-year elections because allowing politicians to choose their election time is insane, and the further out they are from potential voter feedback the more problematic things seem to get. no term limits or anything, though.
